I met up with my girlfriend in kunming
and the circumstances were somewhat
improvised and unexpected not worth
telling the whole story but when I met
up with her we needed to use the
internet to try to buy airplane tickets
to look at different options we ended up
taking the bus from coming to go home
together which is beautiful I don't
regret that at all now that i don't--all
great that bus trip is that much rather
do the bus and do the the airplane but
anyway we were there I thought oh great
no problem you know we'll just go around
to some of the chinese internet cafes
and I knew several in the neighborhood
even though I've never used them no I
had memories from fully ten years ago
like 2007-2008 of how the internet
internet censorship used to work in
China now used to be at that time if you
were at a public internet cafe as I was
back then use a public internet cafe and
you started typing in a word that was
politically sensitive at that time I'm
not going to give example you could have
the computer shut down and log you out
in front of you while you were typing
the email so your email wouldn't get set
he who would be you would be signed out
of the computer while he did typing you
know that was the kind of government
control they had over over the Internet
at that time ten years ago now what I
didn't know I just found this out as a
surprise walking around cream in with my
girlfriend we tried cuz you know fine
you know you you understand that you
accept that you move on you know those
are the rules you play by we use the
internet right we use the public
internet terminal in China but control
in kunming had been raised the level a
significant level in a significant way
this last time when I was in conveying
with my girlfriend we could not use a
public internet cafe anywhere because
all of them require Chinese government
ID they need your citizens ID card and
they would sign you in they would deepen
the car they would scan the card and
then everything you did sitting at that
computer wasn't just monitored and
controlled by the government it was
linked to your name with one to your ID
card right
that's a significant next step in
government monitoring control and I
asked them but what about foreigners
what about people like me who want to
use the internet doesn't work you need
to have a Chinese friend basically login
and your account you to come with
somebody who's a Chinese citizen and has
this standard piece of ID that pretty
much everyone in China has otherwise you
cannot use a public Internet terminal so
wow these things change just now I was
live streaming and I started talking to
a guy just signed up for the Navy he
just went through basic training for the
Navy the US Navy the American Navy and
so I was interested to talk to him us
talk to him before so he's a vegan he's
just been through basic training and
dealt with the dietary requirements and
polishing leather shoes with a horse
hair brush they make him wear you know
leather boots miskin think so
interesting guy interest if talked about
so I'm trying to talk with him via live
stream from a university campus in China
and after you first except that's right
in a contested border area and this is I
appreciate the level Public Security who
got here but this is an especially
secure part of China for good reason
right next to the Myanmar border and she
is she's actually on a u.s. occupation
and suddenly you know the quality of the
connection deteriorates we had to reboot
and restart several times to get live
stream each now you know that maybe I
have someone asking of the others that
could be just a coincidence could be
could be but the internet here is very
actively monitored it's not something
passive it's not a it's not a you know
it's not a system that runs itself there
are people whose full-time job is to sit
and watch this happen in the internet
and interact with it as sensors or as
government regular regulated all the
time and you see that so I have a lot of
experience using skype here in China
making skype calls within China making
schedules to the United States or what
have you and one of my friends who
definitely is a person of interest she
definitely is watched by the Chinese
government
much more than I am when I was trying to
talk to her on skype skype was by saving
very very strangely and skype also
insisted on closing down and restarting
before we make the call a lot of really
really weird behavior at a skype and
among other funny things you know Skype
wouldn't let me send her a photo you
know in the chat you can send a still
photo I was just trying to send a photo
actually of strawberries I've been
buying a lot of strawberries here lately
you might have seen that post on my
Twitter so I mean it's funny in all
kinds of little ways you get these
reminders and there are posters up
saying it everywhere if you go to an
internet cafe here there's a poster up
with a cartoon of the police saying you
know the car to the police are always
watching you you know this kind of thing
back 10 years ago used to when you log
into the computer we started up public
view there was a reminder on the screen
you know the Chinese police are watching
everything you do you know for your
safety and for everyone's safety on time
so it's not it's not a secret it but you
know it certainly makes you question the
presumed contrast between Chinese
culture on this and American culture we
now have you know a new set of
revelations about the extent front from
WikiLeaks just this week yet more news
with the extent to which the American
internet is monitored and recorded and
indeed controlled by the US government
and you know the ways in which those
powers are and are not controlled by
democratic governments oversight so
there are hard questions to be asked in
every country owner of the world I have
to say my concerns what I want to see
legislation on has much less to do with
privacy has much more to do with who can
and cannot access those archives when
the information is needed so if my
brother disappears can I get the data to
try to track him down you notice if I
brother's a normal person if my sister
is murdered you know under what
circumstances can the police get that
data can people get that data because
once you know once you know that the
data exists once you know the government
has an archive of everything you're
the rear sister said to anyone and
everything that people said to them then
you have to ethically justify why is it
that we're pretending we don't have that
data when it really could help someone
with really good at consequences whether
that's with a murder investigation or a
missing persons case or anything you
want to say what's the point of having a
government that wants to pretend that
data doesn't exist in a reality an
agency like the CIA has it and can use
it but your local police cannot and
maybe you cannot what if you for some
legitimate reason want to access that
kind of data you know you know it exists
these are things very very meaningful
and important questions and we also get
questions with verifiability so we had a
court case in canada recently which I
randomly read some articles about it was
interesting me it's not worth mentioning
why I guess it was interesting for human
rights reasons but we had a a court case
in Canada where you know the judge was
misled by a fake Twitter account it
wasn't a major part of the court case
but someone made a joke Twitter account
pretending to be the other person in the
case and this judge thought that the
comments on that twitter account really
were the man in court and so I was quite
interesting and as ever Cole what's
Canadian court system did was that they
actually had to issue an amended
judgment they didn't invalidate the
ruling but the judge went back and
changed his ruling interesting now look
to very obvious problems here if you
have an internet that is managed and
monitored by the CIA by the government
of China by numerous other agencies but
at NSA I mean it's the big one really
National Security Agency well how can i
or how can a judge verify is this really
the person making this comment and
conversely can we ever verify whether or
not the government themselves are
impersonating someone if the government
wants to put me in prison what easiest
ways they could do so would be sending
emails that are apparently sent by me
but not actually their power to impose
you by using your accounts whether it's
your Twitter account or your email
accounts or even your credit card your
banking account that is now unchecked
and unlimited so verification of
identity and the ability of the
government to even scrutinize itself to
hold itself accountable in cases of
identity theft of perversion of Justice
of misrepresenting someone's conduct
those I think those are major major
issues that didn't exist in the
pre-digital era and that with absolutely
no legislation to handle and I think
there anyway I think they're much more
important much more pressing and call
for much more specific legislation than
the blanket concept of privacy a concept
that was really invented at a time when
were talking about the privacy of a
handwritten letter sent in the mail and
the consequences for someone else
reading that letter really cannot be
compared to the consequences someone
having access to my financial records my
banking data being able to falsify
transactions that I've apparently made
myself accessing you know math mapping
data where i am at what time i was in a
given location and you know we really do
we really do you know we really do have
instances of people being convicted for
crimes because they were talking on
their cell phone in the car well if
someone else was committing a crime and
we can prove they chose not to call the
police and they could have what's down
to this very very fine level of
specificity but as specific as that is
is it verifiable how can you ever know
whether or not those records were
falsified perhaps by a hacker but much
more likely by a government agency
itself or simply by one corrupt
individual within the government those
are my god